'\" t
.\"
.\" libexplain - Explain errno values returned by libc functions
.\" Copyright (C) 2008 Peter Miller
.\" Written by Peter Miller <millerp@canb.auug.org.au>
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.TH "Read Me" libexplain libexplain "Reference Manual"
.so etc/version.so
.hy 0
.ad l
.SH NAME
libexplain \- Explain errno values returned by libc functions
.XX "" "The README file"
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIlibexplain\fP package
provides a library which may be used to explain
Unix and Linux system call errors.
This will make your application's error messages much more
informative to your users.
.PP
The library is not quite a drop-in replacement for
\f[I]strerror\fP(3), but it
comes close.
Each system call has a dedicated libexplain function, for example
.RS
.ft CW
.nf
fd = open(path, flags, mode);
if (fd < 0)
{
    fprintf(stderr, "%s\en", libexplain_open(path, flags, mode));
    exit(1);
}
.fi
.ft R
.RE
If, for example, you were to try to open
\f[CW]no-such-dir/some-file\fP, you would see a message like
.RS
\f[CW]open("no-such-dir/some-file", O_RDONLY) failed,
No such file or directory (2, ENOENT)
because directory
"no-such-dir" does not exist\fP
.RE
.PP
The library also provides thread safe variants of each function.
.br
.ne 1i
.SH HOME PAGE
The latest version of
.I libexplain
is available on the Web from:
.TS
center,tab(;);
l l s
l l l.
URL:;http://libexplain.sourceforge.net/
File:;index.html;# the libexplain page
File:;libexplain.\*(v).README;# Description, from the tar file
File:;libexplain.\*(v).lsm;# Description, LSM format
File:;libexplain.\*(v).tar.gz;# the complete source
File:;libexplain.\*(v).pdf;# Reference Manual
.TE
.br
.ne 1i
.SH BUILDING LIBEXPLAIN
Full instructions for building
.I libexplain
may be found in the
.I BUILDING
file included in this distribution.
.br
.ne 1i
.SH COPYRIGHT
.I libexplain
version \*(v)
.br
Copyright
.if t \(co
.if n (C)
\*(Y) Peter Miller
.PP
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or (at
your option) any later version.
.PP
This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU Lesser
General Public License for more details.
.PP
You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public License
along with this program. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.PP
It should be in the \f[I]LICENSE\fP file included with this distribution.
.br
.ne 1i
.SH AUTHOR
.TS
tab(;);
l r l.
Peter Miller;E-Mail:;millerp@canb.auug.org.au
\f(CW/\e/\e*\fP;WWW:;http://www.canb.auug.org.au/~millerp/
.TE
.br
.bp
.SH RELEASE NOTES
.XX "" "Release Notes"
This section details the various features and bug fixes of the various
releases.  For excruciating and complete detail, and also credits for
those of you who have generously sent me suggestions and bug reports,
see the \fIetc/CHANGES.*\fP files.
.so etc/new.so
