.\"
.\" libexplain - Explain errno values returned by libc functions
.\" Copyright (C) 2008 Peter Miller
.\" Written by Peter Miller <millerp@canb.auug.org.au>
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.ds n) libexplain_fflush_or_die
.TH libexplain_fflush_or_die 3
.SH NAME
libexplain_fflush_or_die \- flush a stream and report errors
.XX "libexplain_fflush_or_die(3)" "flush a stream and report errors"
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <libexplain/fflush.h>
.br
void libexplain_fflush_or_die(FILE *fp);
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------------
The libexplain_errno_fflush function may be used to obtain a human
readable explanation of what went wrong in a \f[I]fflush\fP(3)
system call.  The least the message will contain is the value of
\f[CR]strerror(errnum)\fP, but usually it will do much better, and
indicate the underlying cause in more detail.
.PP
This function is intended to be used in a fashion similar to the
following example:
.RS
.ft CW
.nf
libexplain_fflush_or_die(fp);
.fi
.ft R
.RE
.TP 8n
\fIfp\fP
The stream pointer, exactly as to be passed to the \f[I]fflush\fP(3)
system call.
.TP 8n
Returns:
Only ever returns on success.
On failure, this function will report errors using
\f[I]libexplain_fflush\fP(3) and then terminate by calling
\f[CW]exit(EXIT_FAILURE)\fP.
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH COPYRIGHT
.if n .ds C) (C)
.if t .ds C) \(co
libexplain version \*(v)
.br
Copyright \*(C) 2008 Peter Miller
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Peter Miller <millerp@canb.auug.org.au>
