.\"
.\" libexplain - Explain errno values returned by libc functions
.\" Copyright (C) 2008 Peter Miller
.\" Written by Peter Miller <millerp@canb.auug.org.au>
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.TH libexplain 3
.SH NAME
libexplain \- Explain errno values returned by libc functions
.XX "libexplain(3)" "Explain errno values returned by libc functions"
.SH SYNOPSIS
cc ... -lexplain;
.sp
#include <libexplain/libexplain.h>
.SH DESCRIPTION
The libexplain library exists to give explanations of error reported by
system calls.  The error message returned by \f[I]strerror\fP(3) tend to
be quite cryptic.  By providing a specific error report for each system
call, a more detailed error message is possible, usually identifying and
describing the specific cause from amongst the numerous meanings each
\f[I]errno\fP value maps to.
.SS Supported System Calls
Each supported system call has its own \f[I]man\fP page.
.\" please keep the follwoing list sorted
.\" ----------  A  ---------------------------------------------------------
.TP 8n
\f[I]libexplain_access\fP(2)
Explain \f[I]access\fP(2) errors
.\" ----------  B  ---------------------------------------------------------
.\" ----------  C  ---------------------------------------------------------
.TP 8n
\f[I]libexplain_chdir\fP(2)
Explain \f[I]chdir\fP(2) errors
.TP 8n
\f[I]libexplain_close\fP(2)
Explain \f[I]close\fP(2) errors
.TP 8n
\f[I]libexplain_creat\fP(2)
Explain \f[I]creat\fP(2) errors
.\" ----------  D  ---------------------------------------------------------
.\" ----------  E  ---------------------------------------------------------
.\" ----------  F  ---------------------------------------------------------
.TP 8n
\f[I]libexplain_fclose\fP(2)
Explain \f[I]fclose\fP(2) errors
.TP 8n
\f[I]libexplain_fcntl\fP(2)
Explain \f[I]fcntl\fP(2) errors
.TP 8n
\f[I]libexplain_fflush\fP(2)
Explain \f[I]fflush\fP(2) errors
.TP 8n
\f[I]libexplain_fopen\fP(2)
Explain \f[I]fopen\fP(2) errors
.TP 8n
\f[I]libexplain_freopen\fP(2)
Explain \f[I]freopen\fP(2) errors
.\" ----------  G  ---------------------------------------------------------
.\" ----------  H  ---------------------------------------------------------
.\" ----------  I  ---------------------------------------------------------
.\" ----------  K  ---------------------------------------------------------
.\" ----------  L  ---------------------------------------------------------
.TP 8n
\f[I]libexplain_link\fP(2)
Explain \f[I]link\fP(2) errors
.TP 8n
\f[I]libexplain_lseek\fP(2)
Explain \f[I]lseek\fP(2) errors
.TP 8n
\f[I]libexplain_lstat\fP(2)
Explain \f[I]lstat\fP(2) errors
.\" ----------  M  ---------------------------------------------------------
.\" ----------  N  ---------------------------------------------------------
.\" ----------  O  ---------------------------------------------------------
.TP 8n
\f[I]libexplain_open\fP(2)
Explain \f[I]open\fP(2) errors
.\" ----------  P  ---------------------------------------------------------
.\" ----------  Q  ---------------------------------------------------------
.\" ----------  R  ---------------------------------------------------------
.TP 8n
\f[I]libexplain_read\fP(2)
Explain \f[I]read\fP(2) errors
.TP 8n
\f[I]libexplain_rename\fP(2)
Explain \f[I]rename\fP(2) errors
.\" ----------  S  ---------------------------------------------------------
.TP 8n
\f[I]libexplain_stat\fP(2)
Explain \f[I]stat\fP(2) errors
.TP 8n
\f[I]libexplain_symlink\fP(2)
Explain \f[I]symlink\fP(2) errors
.\" ----------  T  ---------------------------------------------------------
.\" ----------  U  ---------------------------------------------------------
.TP 8n
\f[I]libexplain_unlink\fP(2)
Explain \f[I]unlink\fP(2) errors
.\" ----------  V  ---------------------------------------------------------
.\" ----------  W  ---------------------------------------------------------
.TP 8n
\f[I]libexplain_write\fP(2)
Explain \f[I]write\fP(2) errors
.\" ----------  X  ---------------------------------------------------------
.\" ----------  Y  ---------------------------------------------------------
.\" ----------  Z  ---------------------------------------------------------
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------------
.PP
There are plans for additional coverage.
This list is expected to expand in later releases of this library.
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP 8n
\f[I]errno\fP(3)
number of last error
.TP 8n
\f[I]strerror\fP(3)
return string describing error number
.SH COPYRIGHT
.if n .ds C) (C)
.if t .ds C) \(co
libexplain version \*(v)
.br
Copyright \*(C) 2008 Peter Miller
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Peter Miller <millerp@canb.auug.org.au>
