.\"
.\" libexplain - Explain errno values returned by libc functions
.\" Copyright (C) 2008 Peter Miller
.\" Written by Peter Miller <millerp@canb.auug.org.au>
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.ds n) libexplain_fchmod_or_die
.TH libexplain_fchmod_or_die 3
.SH NAME
libexplain_fchmod_or_die \- change permissions of a file and report errors
.XX "libexplain_fchmod_or_die(3)" \
                                "change permissions of a file and report errors"
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <libexplain/libexplain.h>
.br
void libexplain_fchmod_or_die(int fildes, int mode);
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \f[B]libexplain_fchmod_or_die\fP function
is used to call the \f[I]fchmod\fP(2)
system call.
On failure an explanation wiil be printed to \f[I]stderr\fP,
obtained from \f[I]libexplain_fchmod\fP(3),
and the the process terminates by call
ing \f[CW]exit(1)\fP.
.PP
This function is intended to be used in a fashion similar to the
following example:
.RS
.ft CW
.nf
libexplain_fchmod_or_die(fildes, mode);
.fi
.ft R
.RE
.TP 8n
\f[I]fildes\fP
The fildes, exactly as to be passed to the \f[I]fchmod\fP(2) system call.
.TP 8n
\f[I]mode\fP
The mode, exactly as to be passed to the \f[I]fchmod\fP(2) system call.
.TP 8n
Returns:
This function only returns on success.
On failure, prints an explanation and exit(1)s.
.SH COPYRIGHT
.so etc/version.so
.if n .ds C) (C)
.if t .ds C) \(co
libexplain version \*(v)
.br
Copyright \*(C) 2008 Peter Miller
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Peter Miller <millerp@canb.auug.org.au>
