.\"
.\" libexplain - Explain errno values returned by libc functions
.\" Copyright (C) 2008 Peter Miller
.\" Written by Peter Miller <pmiller@opensource.org.au>
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.ds n) libexplain_freopen_or_die
.TH libexplain_freopen_or_die 3
.SH NAME
libexplain_freopen_or_die \- open file and report errors
.XX "libexplain_freopen_or_die(3)" "open file and report errors"
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <libexplain/freopen.h>
.br
void libexplain_freopen_or_die(const char *pathname, const char *flags,
FILE *fp);
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------------
The libexplain_freopen_or_die function is used to reopen a file via
the \f[I]freopen\fP(3) system call.  On failure it will print an
explanation, obtained from the \f[I]linexplain_freopen\fP(3) function,
on the standard error stream and then exit.
.PP
This function is intended to be used in a fashion similar to the
following example:
.RS
.ft CW
.nf
libexplain_freopen_or_die(pathname, flags, fp);
.fi
.ft R
.RE
.TP 8n
\f[I]pathname\fP
The pathname, exactly as to be passed to the \f[I]freopen\fP(3) system call.
.TP 8n
\f[I]flags\fP
The flags, exactly as to be passed to the \f[I]freopen\fP(3) system call.
.TP 8n
\f[I]fp\fP
The fp, exactly as to be passed to the \f[I]freopen\fP(3) system call.
.TP 8n
Returns:
Only ever return on success.
Never returns on failure.
.\" ------------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH COPYRIGHT
.if n .ds C) (C)
.if t .ds C) \(co
libexplain version \*(v)
.br
Copyright \*(C) 2008 Peter Miller
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Peter Miller <pmiller@opensource.org.au>
